good evening everybody again doc bass
coming back at you this is an immediate
follow-up to my previous video that I
made on topographic maps for bass
anglers and in this last video that I
think I did a fairly good job actually
pointing out some of the features you
can identify using topographic maps
especially those topographic maps that
were created before the lake or
reservoir was actually constructed which
is the example of what I am showing you
here and what I did in that previous
video since this map was shown in that
previous video just to remind you
quickly what's going on here you know
the points of these blue arrows over
here are basically indicating the
shoreline location this is after this
area was inundated everything up to the
right of that or east is above water
everything to the left or West's
underwater you know we had the old road
bed coming through we have some old
buildings that have been inundated i
mentioned that all this green stuff used
to be trees that have been set shut down
except for in the back part of this Cove
where those trees are still standing and
I'll show you another interesting part
or choosing apart but another type of
map that you can use one that's referred
to as a lake fishing map that I use
actually as a complement to this map and
why use you know total graphic maps to
help again extract some additional
information that may not be contained on
the typical lake maps you find and then
I'll annotate those maps accordingly
okay but let me switch over here and
show you what the section of the lake
map for this Lake looks like and here it
is it is very simple the dark black line
here is indeed the shoreline okay and
I'm going to switch back to the topo and
you know just think of how this
shoreline is going to come in through
here I just going to have this nice
little nose thing coming out here and
following this client
in here along these blue arrowed or the
tips of those blue arrows we get that
same feature playing in here if we look
offshore we then have that extended
feature out here okay that's actually
being shown on the topographic map as
kind of this contour and the ones out
beyond it those are underwater today all
right what are some of the advantages of
a lake map well it's simple have one
thing I like in most like maps is they
do a much better job of highlighting
usually where the old creek channel is
which is what this thing is this light
blue like gray stripe running down the
center of the the lake okay and in this
case we have the road that was coming in
down to the ramp area today we also see
where they projected that road coming
across the reservoir as it exists as as
was also shown on the topographic map
okay the contours here have been
interpreted to actually show the depths
as a close as opposed to the land
elevation which is what is going to be
shown on those older topographic maps
that represent the topography of the
area before the map the excuse me the
reservoir is actually constructed again
using these things in concert this is
going to help you you know interpret
what's going on you know it's not
showing things like those old structures
that used to be out here that have been
since left behind it's not showing you
where the treeline used to be although I
can tell you in this part of this Cove
that there the trees are still standing
but all the trees down here were removed
there is another interesting piece of
information here you'll see this number
three with a four in the background I
mentioned that when they took down all
these trees they actually brought those
down to the original creek channel the
edge of it in created large brush piles
this is the location of one of those
brush piles now you could have
speculated that when they took down
these trees down here they probably put
them somewhere out in this area and of
course if you have a depth finder you
can go out and find that pretty quickly
but in this map they're showing you
directly so keep this in mind
I'm not advocating just using
topographic maps I'm not advocating just
using lake fishing maps I actually use
both of these maps and my fishing
endeavors and my official copy of this
map for instance has all kinds of
notations on it things that I've
transferred off the topographic maps oh
one other thing sometimes these lake
fishing maps are at cost they're
available from commercial companies and
there is a commercial company that makes
one for this lake this lake fishing map
however was actually made available by
our department of natural resources in
this state so get out there be diligent
poke around you'll never know the map
treasures you'll find and remember
they're all going to help you succeed at
doing more best catching unless just
bass fishing have a great night we'll
talk to you again soon